[MUSIC]
In this video, we will talk about
hyperparameter optimization for
some tree based models.
Nowadays, XGBoost and
LightGBM became really gold standard.
They are just awesome implementation
of a very versatile gradient boosted
decision trees model.
There is also a CatBoost library it
appeared exactly at the time when we were
preparing this course, so CatBoost
didn't have time to win people's hearts.
But it looks very interesting and
promising, so check it out.
There is a very nice
implementation of RandomForest and
ExtraTrees models sklearn.
These models are powerful, and
can be used along with gradient boosting.
And finally, there is a model
called regularized Greedy Forest.
It showed very nice results from several
competitions, but its implementation is
very slow and hard to use, but
you can try it on small data sets.
Okay, what important parameters do
we have in XGBoost and LightGBM?
The two libraries have similar parameters
and we'll use names from XGBoost.
And on the right half of the slide
you will see somehow loosely
corresponding parameter
names from LightGBM.
To understand the parameters,
we better understand how XGBoost and
LightGBM work at least a very high level.
What these models do, these models
build decision trees one after another
gradually optimizing a given objective.
And first there are many parameters
that control the tree building process.
Max_depth is the maximum depth of a tree.
And of course, the deeper a tree can be
grown the better it can fit a dataset.
So increasing this parameter will lead
to faster fitting to the train set.
Depending on the task,
the optimal depth can vary a lot,
sometimes it is 2, sometimes it is 27.
If you increase the depth and can not get
the model to overfit, that is, the model
is becoming better and better on the
validation set as you increase the depth.
It can be a sign that there are a lot
of important interactions to
extract from the data.
So it's better to stop tuning and
try to generate some features.
I would recommend to start with
a max_depth of about seven.
Also remember that as
you increase the depth,
the learning will take a longer time.
So do not set depth to
a very higher values
unless you are 100% sure you need it.
In LightGBM,
it is possible to control the number of
leaves in the tree rather
than the maximum depth.
It is nice since a resulting
tree can be very deep,
but have small number of leaves and
not over fit.
Some simple parameter controls a fraction
of objects to use when feeding a tree.
It's a value between 0 and 1.
One might think that it's better
always use all the objects, right?
But in practice,
it turns out that it's not.
Actually, if only a fraction of
objects is used at every duration,
then the model is less
prone to overfitting.
So using a fraction of objects, the model
will fit slower on the train set, but at
the same time it will probably generalize
better than this over-fitted model.
So, it works kind of as a regularization.
Similarly, if we can consider only
a fraction of features [INAUDIBLE] split,
this is controlled by parameters
colsample_bytree and colsample_bylevel.
Once again, if the model is over fitting,
you can try to lower
down these parameters.
There are also various regularization
parameters, min_child_weight,
lambda, alpha and others.
The most important one
is min_child_weight.
If we increase it,
the model will become more conservative.
If we set it to 0,
which is the minimum value for
this parameter,
the model will be less constrained.
In my experience,
it's one of the most important parameters
to tune in XGBoost and LightGBM.
Depending on the task,
I find optimal values to be 0, 5,
15, 300, so do not hesitate to try a wide
range of values, it depends on the data.
To this end we were discussing
hyperparameters that are used to
build a tree.
And next, there are two very important
parameters that are tightly connected,
eta and num_rounds.
Eta is essentially a learning weight,
like in gradient descent.
And the num_round is the how many
learning steps we want to perform or
in other words how many
tree's we want to build.
With each iteration
a new tree is built and
added to the model with
a learning rate eta.
So in general,
the higher the learning rate,
the faster the model fits to the train set
and probably it can lead to over fitting.
And more steps model does,
the better the model fits.
But there are several caveats here.
It happens that with a too high learning
rate the model will not fit at all,
it will just not converge.
So first, we need to find out if we
are using small enough learning rate.
On the other hand,
if the learning rate is too small,
the model will learn nothing
after a large number of rounds.
But at the same time, small learning rate
often leads to a better generalization.
So it means that learning
rate should be just right, so
that the model generalize and
doesn't take forever to train.
The nice thing is that we can freeze
eta to be reasonably small, say, 0.1 or
0.01, and then find how many rounds we
should train the model til it over fits.
We usually use early stopping for it.
We monitor the validation loss and exit
the training when loss starts to go up.
Now when we found
the right number of rounds,
we can do a trick that
usually improves the score.
We multiply the number of
steps by a factor of alpha and
at the same time,
we divide eta by the factor of alpha.
For example, we double the number
of steps and divide eta by 2.
In this case, the learning will
take twice longer in time, but
the resulting model
usually becomes better.
It may happen that the valid parameters
will need to be adjusted too,
but usually it's okay to leave them as is.
Finally, you may want to
use random seed argument,
many people recommend to
fix seed before hand.
I think it doesn't make too much
sense to fix seed in XGBoost,
as anyway every changed parameter will
lead to completely different model.
But I would use this
parameter to verify that
different random seeds do not
change training results much.
Say [INAUDIBLE] competition,
one could jump 1,000 places up or
down on the leaderboard just by training
a model with different random seeds.
If random seed doesn't
affect model too much, good.
In other case, I suggest you to think
one more time if it's a good idea to
participate in that competition as
the results can be quite random.
Or at least I suggest you to adjust
validation scheme and account for
the randomness.
All right,
we're finished with gradient boosting.
Now let's get to RandomForest and
ExtraTrees.
In fact, ExtraTrees is just a more
randomized version of RandomForest and
has the same parameters.
So I will say RandomForest
meaning both of the models.
RandomForest and ExtraBoost build trees,
one tree after another.
But, RandomForest builds each
tree to be independent of others.
It means that having a lot of trees
doesn't lead to overfeeding for
RandomForest as opposed
to gradient boosting.
In sklearn, the number of trees for
random forest is controlled
by N_estimators parameter.
At the start,
we may want to determine what number
of trees is sufficient to have.
That is, if we use more than that,
the result will not change much,
but the models will fit longer.
I usually first set N_estimators
to very small number, say 10,
and see how long does it take
to fit 10 trees on that data.
If it is not too long then I set
N_estimators to a huge value,
say 300, but it actually depends.
And feed the model.
And then I plot how the validation
error changed depending on a number of
used trees.
This plot usually looks like that.
We have number of trees on the x-axis and
the accuracy score on y-axis.
We see here that about 50 trees
already give reasonable score and
we don't need to use more
while tuning parameter.
It's pretty reliable to use 50 trees.
Before submitting to leaderboard,
we can set N_estimators to
a higher value just to be sure.
You can find code for this plot,
actually, in the reading materials.
Similarly to XGBoost,
there is a parameter max_depth
that controls depth of the trees.
But differently to XGBoost,
it can be set to none,
which corresponds to unlimited depth.
It can be very useful actually when
the features in the data set have repeated
values and important interactions.
In other cases,
the model with unconstrained
depth will over fit immediately.
I recommend you to start with a depth
of about 7 for random forest.
Usually an optimal depth for
random forests is higher than for
gradient boosting, so do not hesitate
to try a depth 10, 20, and higher.
Max_features is similar to call
sample parameter from XGBoost.
The more features I use to decipher
a split, the faster the training.
But on the other hand,
you don't want to use too few features.
And min_samples_leaf is
a regularization parameter similar to
min_child_weight from XGBoost and
the same as min_data_leaf from LightGPM.
For Random Forest classifier,
we can select a criterion to eleviate
a split in the tree with
a criterion parameter.
It can be either Gini or Entropy.
To choose one, we should just try both and
pick the best performing one.
In my experience Gini is better more
often, but sometimes Entropy wins.
We can also fix random seed using
random_state parameter, if we want.
And finally, do not forget to set n_jobs
parameter to a number of cores you have.
As by default, RandomForest from sklearn
uses only one core for some reason.
So in this video, we were talking
about various hyperparameters
of gradient boost and
decision trees, and random forest.
In the following video, we'll discuss
neural networks and linear models.
[MUSIC]